Well, now we’re looking forward to hearing
from a graduate of the 41st class of Gilead,
a member of the Governing Body,
Brother Gerrit Lösch.
Brother Lösch has just completed 25 years
of service as a member of the Governing Body.
How wonderful!
Brother Lösch will speak to us now
on the subject “Are You Ready?”
Are you ready?
As Gilead students,
no doubt you have been asked
that question many times this week.
The Boy Scouts
have the greeting,
‘Always Prepared.’
What are they prepared for?
They’re supposed to be ready, or prepared,
for doing at least one good deed each day.
True Christians are also
supposed to be always prepared.
Prepared for what?
Yes, for doing good deeds and also prepared
for the final return of the Lord Jesus
as a mighty heavenly King
in the great tribulation.
Jesus began to rule
over his congregation, when?
Well, I’m sure you understand,
at Pentecost 33 of our Common Era,
over his congregation.
The Insight book says:
“The Scriptures show [and this is a quote]
“that from Pentecost 33 C.E. onward,
“a spiritual kingdom
was set up over his disciples.”
Paul reminded Christians of Colossae:
“He rescued us
from the authority of the darkness
“and transferred us into the kingdom
of his beloved Son.”—Colossians 1:13.
Jesus has been ruling
as King over his disciples
ever since Pentecost 33 C.E.
He’s always been
the head of the congregation,
which is compared to a body.
So he ruled as King
during the Middle Ages also.
However, something changed in 1914 C.E.
What was it?
Well, from that time onward,
Jesus would rule also over his enemies,
both in heaven and on earth.
The prophecy was fulfilled
that we find in Psalm 110.
And there it says in Psalm 110:
“Jehovah declared to my Lord:
“‘Sit at my right hand until I place
“your enemies as a stool for your feet.’
“Jehovah will extend the scepter
“of your power out of Zion, saying:
‘Go subduing in the midst of your enemies.’”
Well, we understand that in 1914
he returned as heavenly King to rule.
Since that time, many things are happening
showing us that he’s actually
‘ruling in the midst of his enemies.’
He’s not ruling only over his congregation.
Satan and his agents were not able to prevent
the appointment
of “the faithful and discreet slave.”
But what about Jesus’ final coming as Judge?
When will that return happen?
Well, we don’t know exactly,
but Jesus predicted events
from which we can conclude
when it would be close.
Although Jesus said that we would not be able
to know in advance the exact time or date,
he prophesied events that would occur
from which we
could notice the nearness
of his final coming as Judge.
In the past, many people
attempted to pinpoint his return.
By their expectations and predictions,
they aroused curiosity,
but many times these predictions failed.
Even in the first century,
there already existed
among Christians
false expectations.
The Thessalonians, for instance, had such.
Paul needed to write to them
for them to find balance.
Second Thessalonians 2:1
onward says:
“However, brothers, concerning the presence
“of our Lord Jesus Christ
and our being gathered together to him,
“we ask you not to be quickly shaken
“from your reason nor to be alarmed
“either by an inspired statement
or by a spoken message
“or by a letter appearing to be from us,
“to the effect
that the day of Jehovah is here.
Let no one lead you astray,”
he says in verse 3.
There were many other false expectations
during the centuries that followed.
Martin of Tours, a French bishop,
stated that the world
would end before the year 400.
Hippolytus and two others predicted Jesus
to return in the year 500
of our time.
Africanus, Sextus Julius
(with his Latin name),
predicted it for the year 800.
Of course, also the year 1000 was predicted,
including by a pope, Pope Sylvester,
as some sources claim.
Pope Innocent III predicted the end
for the year 1284,
which would have been
666 years after the rise of Islam.
Famous painter Sandro Botticelli
predicted the year 1504.
Astrologers in London
predicted February 1, 1524.
As a result, 20,000 Londoners
left their homes for higher ground.
In 1533, Melchior Hofmann predicted
Christ’s second coming
to take place that year in Strasbourg.
He claimed that 144,000
people would be saved,
while the rest of the world
would be consumed by fire.
Luther, a German priest
and professor of theology,
predicted the end of the world would occur
no later than the year 1600.
Christopher Columbus predicted
(famous, we all know him)
in 1501 in his Book of Prophecies
that the world would end in 1656.
John Napier predicted
the end of the world for 1700.
Christopher Love, a Presbyterian minister,
predicted the year 1805.
A Lutheran clergyman,
Johann Albrecht Bengel,
predicted the year 1836.
And the founder of the Methodist church,
John Wesley, predicted the same year, 1836.
Miller, a Baptist preacher,
predicted the date March 21, 1844,
for the return of Christ,
but later he revised it to October 22.
The Adventist preacher Wendell
predicted the year 1873.
When Jesus did not come,
he reinterpreted his prediction,
saying that Jesus
had returned indeed,
but in invisible form.
Our brothers expected the return of Christ
first for 1874
and then for 1914.
They also initially expected
his return to be visible
but then understood
that it would be invisible.
They also expected
the glorification of the “little flock”
for the spring of 1918.
The year when Brother Russell died, 1916,
the brothers entered
a period of serious testing.
Some even left the truth.
In 1919, faithful ones consolidated again.
A hundred years have passed,
1919 to now 2019, a hundred years.
Will special prophecies
be fulfilled a hundred years after 1919?
Well, this is just a question.
No answer.
There were serious testings
during the year 1925 also.
And for that year,
our brothers had great expectations.
It said in one of our publications:
“We may confidently expect
“[that’s from the booklet
Millions Now Living Will Never Die]
“that 1925 will mark
“the return [from the dead]
“of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob,
and the faithful prophets of old . . .
to the condition of human perfection.”
Not only was the resurrection
of faithful men of old expected in 1925
but some hoped that anointed Christians
might receive
their heavenly reward in that year.
From the 1987 Yearbook, we learned:
“The year 1925 started very promisingly
“with the new Bethel home
and factory in Bern [Switzerland]. . . .
“However, some had
their [own] personal convictions
“with respect to the year 1925.
“Would they let themselves be admonished
“by The Watch Tower of January 1, 1925?
“[The Watch Tower] cautioned
[and I quote]:
“‘The year 1925 is here.
“‘With great expectation
Christians have looked forward to this year.
“‘Many have confidently expected
that all members of the body of Christ
“‘will be changed
to heavenly glory during the year.
“‘This may be accomplished.
“‘It may not be.
“‘In his own due time God will accomplish
“‘his purposes concerning his own people.
“‘Christians should not be
so deeply concerned
“‘about what may transpire during this year
that they would fail to joyfully do
what the Lord would have them to do.’
“Among others, Jakob Weber,
“who was responsible
for the [field] Service Desk
“at Bethel [branch in Switzerland] . . . ,
“was so sure that all the anointed
“would be glorified in heaven
by the end of the year
“[1925]
“that he pursued a ‘liquidation course.’
“He sent large quantities of literature
“to congregations
without having received orders for it,
“instructing them
to distribute the publications
“free of charge in their territory
“before the end of 1925.
“All the efforts of the brothers at Bethel
to reason with him were to no avail.
“Finally, he left not only Bethel
but [even] the truth
“and caused much grief among the brothers
“throughout the country [Switzerland],
since he drew many with him.
Some congregations were reduced
to less than half their former size.”
What about expectations
for the year 50 years later
—1925-1975?
In The Watchtower, March 15, 1980,
a comment is made, and it says:
“In modern times such eagerness,
commendable in itself,
“has led to attempts at setting dates
“for the desired liberation
from the suffering and troubles
“that are the lot
of persons throughout the earth.
“With the appearance of the book
“Life Everlasting
—in Freedom of the Sons of God,
“and its comments
as to how appropriate it would be
“for the millennial reign of Christ
“to parallel the seventh millennium
of man’s existence,
“considerable expectation was aroused
“regarding the year 1975.
“There were statements
made then, and thereafter,
“stressing that this was only a possibility.
“Unfortunately, however
[says The Watchtower],
“along with such cautionary information,
“there were other statements published
“that implied that such realization
“of hopes by that year [1975]
“was more of a probability
than a mere possibility.
“It is to be regretted
[admits The Watchtower]
“that these latter statements
“apparently overshadowed the cautionary ones
“and contributed to a buildup
“of the expectation already initiated.
“In its issue of July 15, 1976,
“The Watchtower,
commenting on the inadvisability
“of setting our sights
on a certain date, stated:
“‘If anyone has been disappointed
through not following this line of thought,
“‘he should now concentrate
on adjusting his viewpoint,
“‘seeing that it was not
the word of God that failed
“‘or deceived him and brought disappointment,
“but that his own understanding
was based on wrong premises.’
“In saying ‘anyone,’ The Watchtower
“included all disappointed ones
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
“hence including persons having to do
“with the publication of the information
“that contributed to the buildup
of hopes centered on that date.”
(end of quote)
So, very humbly, The Watchtower
admitted that on July 15, 1976.
“Nevertheless, there is no reason for us
“to be shaken in faith in God’s promises.
“Rather, as a consequence, we are all moved
“to make a closer examination
“of the Scriptures
regarding this matter of a day of judgment.
“In doing so, we find
that the important thing is not the date.
“What is important
is our keeping ever in mind
“that there is such a day
“—and it is getting closer
and it will require
“an accounting on the part of all of us.
“Peter said that Christians
“should rightly be
‘awaiting and keeping close in mind
the presence of the day of Jehovah.’”
There’s good reason to remain in expectation
—Jesus told us to do so!
In this regard,
Jehovah’s organization has set an example.
Although sometimes
promoting wrong expectations,
our publications
have consistently exhorted us
to “await and keep close in mind
the presence of the day of Jehovah”
and to fix our hope
on God’s promised new world.
Since keeping in expectation was appropriate
for Christians living centuries ago,
it is particularly important for us.
Why?
Because we are living
during Christ’s presence.
The sign of his presence
has been in evidence since 1914.
And the multifeatured sign,
which includes worsening world conditions
and global Kingdom preaching,
is proof that we are living
in “the conclusion of the system of things.”
Since Jesus did not say
how long that period
of time would go, or go on,
before the final end arrives,
we need to be especially vigilant, watchful.
There’s no doubt
that world conditions are deteriorating.
But how bad do you expect conditions
to become before the great tribulation?
Jesus said that most people
would take “no note” of his presence,
carrying on with life’s normal activities
until it is too late.
Thus, the Scriptures indicate
that world conditions during the last days
would not become so extreme
that people would be forced
to believe that the end is near.
On the other hand,
for the composite sign to serve its purpose,
the fulfillment of it
would have to be obvious enough
to command the attention of those
who have been obeying Jesus’ counsel
to “keep on the watch.”
And that has been the case since 1914.
From that time onward,
the features of the sign
have been undergoing fulfillment.
Clearly, we are now living in the time
of “the conclusion of the system of things.”
Why, then, should Christians today keep
in orientation or expectation?
Out of obedience to Jesus Christ,
out of love for him,
out of faith in his promises,
we recognize the sign of his presence.
Our expectations are based,
not on a naive readiness to believe anything,
but on solid Scriptural evidence
that compels us
to remain vigilant, awake, watchful and, yes,
in expectation of the end
of this wicked system.
Many of us have been keeping awake
spiritually already for decades.
However, let us not allow the passing of time
to weaken our resolve to keep in expectation.
We need to be ready for Jesus’ arrival
as Executioner to end this system of things.
Remember that Jesus exhorted his followers
in accord with the prophecy
in Mark chapter 13, starting with verse 33:
“Keep looking, keep awake,
“for you do not know
when the appointed time is.
“It is like a man traveling abroad
“who left his house and gave the authority
“to his slaves, to each one his work,
“and commanded the doorkeeper
to keep on the watch.
“Keep on the watch, therefore,
“for you do not know
when the master of the house is coming,
“whether late in the day or at midnight
“or before dawn or early in the morning,
“in order that when he comes suddenly,
“he does not find you sleeping.
But what I say to you, I say to all:
Keep on the watch.”
Upon recognizing
that Christ’s presence
began in 1914,
Jesus’ followers rightly prepared
for a possible early arrival of the end.
They did so by intensifying
their Kingdom-preaching work.
Jesus indicated that he might come later
—at “dawn or early in the morning,” he said.
If that happened,
how were his followers to respond?
He said: “Keep on the watch.”
So a long wait
would not justify mentally postponing the end
or totally dismissing their expectations.
Consider the prophet Habakkuk,
who was commissioned to foretell
the destruction of Jerusalem.
Jehovah assured his faithful prophet
that the foretold destruction
would “not be late.”
He said: “Keep in expectation”
—Habakkuk chapter 1
and also chapter 2, verse 3.
So don’t you get discouraged by the fact
that you have been preaching
for a long time, perhaps decades.
In the new world,
all will have reason to reflect
on the fact that all the foretold events
associated with the conclusion
of the system of things
did indeed take place, or have taken place.
Meditating on how matters actually turned out
will further strengthen
our confidence in Jehovah
and his promises to be fulfilled.
We will surely be thankful to God,
who ‘has placed times
and seasons in his own jurisdiction.’
He exhorted us to live with an awareness
that “the end of all things has drawn close.”
The Bible predicts that political powers
will turn against false religion.
We should not assume that much time is needed
for the state of this world to develop
to the point where political powers,
according to Revelation 17:16,
turn on the world empire of false religion.
It says there in Revelation chapter 17:
“And the ten horns that you saw
and the [political] wild beast,
“these will hate
the prostitute [false religion]
“and will make her devastated and naked,
and they will eat up her flesh
and completely burn her with fire.”
Let us bear in mind that God
will “put it into their hearts”
to make that move
—and this could happen
swiftly and at any time!
The end of this entire
system of things is not far off.
With good reason,
we should heed Jesus’ warning:
“Pay attention to yourselves that your hearts
“never become weighed down with overeating
“and heavy drinking and anxieties of life,
and suddenly that day
be instantly upon you as a snare.”
Let us be resolved
to serve Jehovah with a sense of urgency,
confident that he “acts in behalf
of those who keep in expectation of him.”
As we await the end
of the present wicked system of things,
let us heed
the disciple Jude’s inspired words,
Jude 20, 21:
“Beloved ones, build yourselves up
“on your most holy faith,
and pray with holy spirit,
“in order to keep yourselves in God’s love,
“while you await the mercy
of our Lord Jesus Christ
with everlasting life in view.”
By doing so, you Gilead students
and each one of us here
will prove ourselves ready, yes,
always prepared
for the good work the Christ will do
but also for every good work
that we strive to do on a daily basis.
Well, now we have
the highlight of the program.
We’ll have the presentation of the diplomas.
And to help me with this
(actually, I think he has
the hardest job here today)
is Brother William Malenfant,
a helper to the Teaching Committee.
He has the task of getting
all these marvelous names right.
So may Jehovah be with you, Bill.
First of all, we have Brother Bovo.
He will be returning to Slovenia.
And now we have Brother Caruso,
who will now be serving in Chile.
Brother and Sister Chung
will be returning to Hong Kong.
Sister Curto will be returning to Spain.
Brother and Sister Díaz
will be returning to the United States.
Sister Dzheenalieva
will be returning to Kyrgyzstan.
Brother Etchepareborde
will now be serving in Côte d’Ivoire.
Brother and Sister Fraser
will be returning to the Solomon Islands.
Brother and Sister Gouveia
will be returning to Angola.
Brother and Sister Gugsa
will be returning to Ethiopia.
Brother and Sister Hamasaki
will now be serving in Indonesia.
Brother and Sister Jerez
will now be serving in Senegal.
Sister Kaam will be returning to France.
Brother and Sister Kabulwe
will be returning to Zambia.
Brother and Sister Lecompte
will now be serving in the United States.
Brother and Sister Lee
will be returning to Korea.
Brother Lindberg
will be returning to Finland.
Brother Martinez will be returning to Mexico.
Brother and Sister Masciotra
will now be serving in Côte d’Ivoire.
Sister McGee will be returning to Jamaica.
Brother and Sister Morel
will be returning to Paraguay.
Brother Mosulishvili
will be returning to Georgia.
Brother and Sister Muslia
will be returning to Albania.
Brother and Sister Nkosi
will be returning to Malawi.
Brother Noel will be returning to Peru.
Brother and Sister Sar
will be returning to Cambodia.
Brother and Sister Sibeko
will be returning to Malawi.
Brother and Sister Sithole
will be returning to South Africa.
Brother and Sister Spina
will now be serving in Croatia.
Brother and Sister Sukirman-Kostermans
will be returning to Indonesia.
Brother Wanemalania
will be returning to the Solomon Islands.
And finally, Brother Webster
will now be serving in Ecuador.
Well, would you like to see now the graduates
of the 147th class of Gilead?
Well, now Brother Sukirman-Kostermans
is going to read the class letter.
“To the Governing Body and the Bethel family.
“Dear Brothers: Upon receiving
our invitation to attend Gilead,
“our hearts were filled
with gratitude for Jehovah.
“Today marks a turning point in our lives,
“and we would like
to thank the Governing Body
“for this opportunity to be taught and molded
“by our Grand Instructor, Jehovah God.
“Your fine example of love
and personal interest has touched us.
“In spite of your busy schedule,
you personally came to teach us
“and help us better understand
‘the mind of Christ.’
“As we reflect on how Jehovah
“has bestowed upon us
a blessing without measure,
“we share the sentiments of the psalmist
“in Psalm 116:12, 14, who sang:
“‘With what will I repay Jehovah
for all the good he has done for me?
“‘I will pay my vows to Jehovah
“in the presence of all his people.’
“We are determined to pay our vows
“by using this special training
to serve the interests
“of his organization to his praise and honor.
“We are very thankful
for the way the Bethel family welcomed us.
“In all the complexes,
the hospitality shown was much more
“than we could have imagined.
“The majority of the class
are Bethelites and,
“to a certain degree,
we understand how much work, time,
“and effort is needed to display hospitality.
“You were very attentive to us.
“You could read the question marks
on our foreheads when we got lost.
“You were patiently standing in line
behind us in the dining room
“when we saw
certain foods for the first time.
“What can we say?
“We feel a part of your family.
“Additionally, we have seen
such wisdom and love
“through the ‘gifts in men’
who have been used as instructors.
“You brothers have generously given
of yourselves, in both heart and mind.
“By means of your teaching and experiences,
“you have helped us
to isolate and apply Bible principles,
”to be people-oriented,
to deal with and see others as Christ did.
“It has helped us
cultivate essential qualities
“that have changed the fabric
of who we are inside.
“You never drew attention to yourselves,
“but in all the lessons, we truly appreciate
“how you glorified and magnified Jehovah.
“As Proverbs 10:22 says:
“‘It is the blessing of Jehovah
that makes one rich.’
“We have been enriched
by making new lifelong friends,
“but Gilead training does not end here.
“As we depart
for our various assignments around the world,
“our determination is
to stick ever closer to Jehovah
“and the work he has assigned to us.
“Our resolve is to use our training
to stabilize and strengthen our brothers
“and to bring glory and honor
to our Grand Instructor, Jehovah.
“We wish to convey
our gratitude and love to all of you.
Your brothers and sisters,
the 147th class of Gilead.”
Well, at the beginning
of this graduation program,
I posed a question to all of you,
and that question was,
How far will you go?
Well, in order to fully serve
our brothers and sisters
—to love them, to train them, to help them—
you will have to make
major sacrifices in your life.
Some of you are making them right now
in order to accept some
of the assignments that you received today.
But I wanted to share
with you a Bible account
that I’d like for you
to try to keep in your minds,
because you never know
when the phone is going to ring
or that e-mail is going to come.
Let’s go to 2 Chronicles chapter 25,
and here we read about King Amaziah.
It’s very interesting
what the Bible says here.
Now, it mentions in verse 6
of 2 Chronicles chapter 25
that Amaziah hired from Israel
100,000 mighty warriors
for 100 silver talents.
Now, I didn’t do all the math.
Sorry, Brother Splane.
But I understand that this is well,
well over $1,000,000 in today’s money.
So this is a very,
very large sum that Amaziah had paid,
but after he had done so, look at verse 7:
“But a man of the true God
came to him, saying:
“‘O king, do not let
the army of Israel go with you,
“‘for Jehovah is not with Israel,
not with any of the Ephraimites.
“‘But go by yourself, . . .
and be courageous in battle.
“‘Otherwise, the true God could cause you
to stumble before an enemy,
for God has the power
to help and to cause stumbling.’”
Well, how did Amaziah react to that counsel?
You see right away in verse 9:
“Amaziah said to the man of the true God:
‘But what about the 100 talents
that I have given to the troops of Israel?’”
Right?
He had already paid the money.
Well, now, how could we apply
that principle to you?
Well, many of you
may have made major sacrifices already
in your career of full-time service.
Maybe you’ve had to learn a new language.
Maybe you’ve made an investment of time
in your department at Bethel
or in your field assignment,
and now you’re being asked
to do something different
—perhaps learn a whole new language
or go from the field to Bethel
or from Bethel to the field.
Well, will you feel like Amaziah?
Will you say, ‘What about those 100 talents
that I’ve already paid?’
Well, here’s the answer
that I’d like for you to keep in your mind.
The man of the true God, in verse 9,
answered Amaziah, and this is what he said:
“Jehovah has the means
to give you much more than that.”
And that’s the thought
you want to treasure in your mind and heart.
When you’re asked to take up
some new challenge, some new assignment
—and it may mean walking away
from a large investment
that you have already made—
remember: Jehovah has the power
to give you much more than that.
Well, with those thoughts in mind,
may you go with all of our love,
with our deep respect,
and with the blessing
of our wonderful,
our amazing God, Jehovah.